01-01-40000003300946

NARRATOR: When folks go looking for a better place to live.

[MUSIC PLAYING]

When they go hunting for the perfect house, what's the word?

MOM: What is the word?

NARRATOR: Electric heat.

MOM: Electric what?

NARRATOR: Electric heat. It's the modern way to heat, for comfort and ease. It's new, better too.

MOM: Better?

NARRATOR: Sure. You can get a heat pump that heats you in the winter and cools you in the summer.

MOM: Cools you in the summer.

NARRATOR: Or you can get a system with a separate thermostat in each separate room to set different temperatures for different people's needs. Keep the playroom warm and the kitchen cool. And you can even have it hidden out of sight. No ugly radiators, no bulky furnace.

MOM: That's neat.

NARRATOR: That's electric heat. It's as clean, as quiet, as electric light. It's in the most modern homes today. So if you're looking for the best, look for electric heat. Move up to electric heat.

(SINGING) Now you can do it for a dollar a day.

MAN: Do what?

(SINGING) Do a lot of things

Light your lights

Wash your clothes

Dry them in a dryer

Play your radios

Heat hot water

Freeze your food

Watch TV.

WOMAN: Cook three meals a day.

MAN: Run your power tools.

WOMAN: Toast.

GIRL 1: And bake.

GIRL 2: Broil.

GIRL 1: Mix.

WOMAN: And open cans and sharpen knives and ring doorbells and run the vacuum cleaner all day. And heat your whole happy house with electricity.

MAN: All for a dollar a day?

(SINGING) You can

All for a dollar a day

When you're living the total electric way

Now, you can do it for a dollar a day

When you're living the total electric way.

NARRATOR: Here's Nippy Weather, with a tip from the gas company on how to beat the winter weather and still save money on gas.

First, close your draperies and turn your thermostat down at night. Second, always heat with gas. Because gas heats best yet costs you less.

GAS DRYER NARRATOR: A gas dryer dries a whole load of clothes for less than $0.02. That's a third of what it costs in other dryers. Do the savings add up? You bet. In its lifetime, your gas dryer could pay for itself.

[MUSIC PLAYING]

(SINGING) Kids are skipping and kids are for throwing

Kids are for fishing and kids are for blowing

Kids are for running and kids are for growing

[VOCALIZING]

FEMALE NARRATOR: When your children are growing up, you can keep grandparents an important part of their young lives by telephone. For one of the joys of long distance is that it helps bring families together wherever they are, day in, day out, all life long.

(SINGING) Kids are for climbing and kids are for leaping

Kids are for eating and kids are for sleeping

Kids are for loving and Little Bo Peeping

[VOCALIZING]

KID 1: Hey, look at the electric wires. I didn't know they had electricity out in the country.

KID 2: Why, certainly, stupid. That's REA electricity. The government owns it.

KID 1: It is not.

KID 2: It is too. It's R-E--

KID 3: C. It's R-E-C, a rural electric coopera-- coopera--

KID 2: Cooperative.

KID 3: Yeah. And that means a lot of people own it.

KID 2: Man, how come everybody says REA? What is REA if it isn't electricity?

KID 3: My daddy said the REA is a loan agency, and they loan the money so that REC could get going. And he said the coopera-- coopera--

KID 2: Cooperatives.

KID 3: Yeah. And they're paying the loan back with interest, too.

KID 2: OK, OK. How come you know so much?

KID 3: Because daddy lived on a farm before there was any electricity, buddy boy. And he says the rural electric cooperatives are good for everybody.

KID 2: Gee, I never thought of it that way.

NARRATOR: Catch up.

[VOCALIZING]

Catch up with the times.

[VOCALIZING]

Catch up with the sleek, clean beauty of a modern gas range. Wherever there's glamor, wherever today's lively crowd is, wherever people think modern and not of days gone by, they think, yes, the up-to-date way to cook. Cooking with gas is clean. Cooking with gas is fast. Cooking with gas is automatic.

Still not cooking with gas? Catch up with the times. Catch up with the beauty, the speed, the exciting, automatic way to cook. Catch up with Gas

(SINGING) G, it's the latest

G, it's the greatest

[VOCALIZING]

Get more for your money

With gas.

NARRATOR: The smokeless, modern way to cook automatically.

BELL SYSTEM NARRATOR: It's not always necessary to telephone for an appointment when you're planning to call on a business prospect in San Francisco, the East Bay, Marin, or anywhere in the Bay Area. Still, phoning ahead does save time, trouble, and wasted trips.

MAN: Excuse me, I'm doing a house to house survey.

HOUSE: Go ahead, I'm a house.

MAN: Well, tell me, how do you heat your people?

HOUSE: Magnificently.

MAN: Yes, but how?

HOUSE: The same way I cool them, with flameless electricity.

MAN: How's that?

HOUSE: Flameless electric heat, check?

MAN: Check.

HOUSE: Ductwork to deliver it, right?

MAN: Right. But what about cooling?

HOUSE: Simple, my boy. Just add a cooling unit and you've got central air conditioning.

MAN: Hey, some system.

HOUSE: And with an electronic air cleaner to trap dust, pollen, and odors, I never a fan.

MAN: Then you really give me year round comfort. Warm air, cool air, clean air, humidity control, all through the same duct work with flameless electricity.

HOUSE: You said it, pal.

MAN: Sounds great. Tell me more.

HOUSE: Wait a minute, nobody talks to houses. Talk to your heating dealer or NSP.

MOTHER: Is grandma there? Say hello to grandma. Come on, Sally, say it.

SALLY: Hi, grandma.

BELL SYSTEM NARRATOR: Share the good word by long distance. For nothing says you like your voice.

What is it that responds instantly to your call? Is always dependable. Keeps you lots of company. Stays alert while you sleep. And costs so little to keep. Man's second best friend, of course, your telephone.

[PHONE RINGING]

MAN: Hello?

BELL SYSTEM NARRATOR: Better yet, take the walking out of talking. Have an extension phone where you live a lot. Order from your Pacific Telephone business office or service man.

[MOTOR REVVING]

OLD MAN: Since I retired, I fished here at Moss Landing for halibut and bass most of the year. That's the PG&E power plant. Known to be the biggest thing of its kind west of the Mississippi. You could put the old powerhouse where I used to work inside this place and never find it.

When it's all finished, it'll turn out enough power to serve a city about four times as big as San Francisco. More than 2,000,000 kilowatts. That's more electricity than we had in the whole PG&E system in 1948. Even then, PG&E was planning ahead so there'd be plenty of low cost power ready when people needed it.

And you know something? The power that'll be needed in 15, 20 years, PG&E's got fellas working on it right now.

NARRATOR: The bread slips into the toaster. The toaster is connected to the cord. The cord is connected to the plug. And the plug to.

[WHOOSHING]

Another source of PG&E electric power, steam geysers. Natural steam, energy untapped for centuries, has now been harnessed. From wells drilled deep within the earth, the steam is piped to a power plant, where this energy is converted by a turbine into efficient electric power and joins the electricity from 78 other PG&E power plants.

This natural steam plant and the company's atomic plants are new ways of producing dependable and economical electricity. And if someday your toast is toasted with energy directly from the sun, don't be surprised.

PACIFIC TELEPHONE NARRATOR: Trouble at sea. Ashore, rescuers alerted over special telephone equipment are on the way. This is telephone newsreel presented by Pacific Telephone.

Distress calls that come into US Coast Guard radio stations and to Pacific Telephone marine operators are relayed by Bell System teletype and by telephone to this Coast Guard nerve center. Here, special communications designed and maintained by telephone people make possible push button contact with rescue units.

Thus, help arrives quickly for a man whose boat was destroyed by fire at sea. For the victims of a dockside fire. Through a flood stricken community. By providing specialized communications such as this, telephone people help the Coast Guard swiftly respond to emergencies that may affect any one of us.

[MUSIC PLAYING]

Nature strikes with sudden fury, flood waters rise, storm damage mounts, and telephone men assemble to reestablish vital phone communications. This is telephone newsreel presented by Pacific Telephone.

Whenever natural disaster hits Pacific Telephone lines, repair crews are on the job fast. Equipment kept stockpiled for just such an emergency is moved into the disaster area. Telephone people arrive by plane, then fan out through the area by helicopter, or by whatever means required to get the job done.

Telephone operators go to work at improvised switchboards. Or in special trailers hauled to the area by truck. These are some of the ways Pacific Telephone people cope with nature's fury, to keep telephone lines you depend on ready to use when they're needed most.

[MUSIC PLAYING]

DOG: Worried? You bet I'm worried, because she's going to sizzle hamburgers in the broiler in her new gas range. Enough burgers for the cub scout pack, with one left over. Live flame is going to make those burgers so good.

Now she's closing the door all the way. With gas range broiling, a fella can't even get a whiff of smoke. That live flame in there sizzles them all char brown outside, tender and juicy inside. And that extra one in there, suppose it's got my name on it.

Meanwhile, back at the oven, apple pies. Look at that crust. Just perfect. Ought to be, the way she brags on that even heat oven.

Burger time. Uh-oh, there they go. I doggies. Guess she knew all along how much I'd admire having one broiled in her Wedgwood Futurematic Gas Range. Now, if I just had a piece of that apple pie.

NARRATOR: Test drive a 1966 Gas Range and pull away from the past. Take a cool, clean ride to good things to eat through all the years ahead, with yourself up there in the driver's seat of a years ahead gas range.

Get instant heat, acceleration up to full cooking power without waiting for coils to warm. And the burner with the brain holds that cooking power steady automatically at the temperature you preset.

Talk about legroom? You get plenty in the oven of a new gas range. Get a second oven too with a panoramic view of desert. And for mileage economy, you're dollars ahead with a years ahead gas range, between $155 and $287 the first 10 years you drive one.

So go years ahead with a visit now to your appliance store. Test drive a 1966 Gas Range and pull away from the past. 

